Add kyc onboarding snippet (#203)
lightsparkdev/umaaas-api: mintlify/snippets/kyc-onboarding.mdx

---
title: "KYC/Onboarding Flow"
description: "Complete customer onboarding and KYC verification process"
---

<Info>
The KYC/onboarding flow allows you to onboard customers through a hosted KYC link or direct API calls. This snippet covers both approaches with references to the OpenAPI schema.
</Info>

## Platform Regulation Status

Your platform's regulatory status determines the KYC/onboarding requirements and available flows. This is configured in your platform settings and affects which verification methods are available.

### Regulated Platforms

<Check>
**Regulated platforms** have lighter KYC requirements since they handle compliance verification internally.
</Check>

Regulated financial institutions can:

- **Direct API Onboarding**: Create customers directly via API calls with minimal verification
- **Internal KYC/KYB**: Handle identity verification through your own compliance systems

> - **Reduced Documentation**: Only provide essential customer information required by the UMA provider

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Reduced Documentation**: Only provide essential customer information required by your payment counterparty or service provider.
```

- **Faster Onboarding**: Streamlined process for known, verified customers

<Tip>
Regulated platforms should use the direct API onboarding flow since you handle KYC/KYB verification internally according to your regulatory requirements.
</Tip>

### Unregulated Platforms

<Warning>

> **Unregulated platforms** require full KYC verification through hosted flows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Unregulated platforms** require full KYC/KYB verification of customers through hosted flows.
```

</Warning>

Unregulated platforms must:

- **Hosted KYC Flow**: Use the hosted KYC link for complete identity verification
- **Full Documentation**: Provide comprehensive customer information including all required PII

> - **Provider Verification**: Rely on UMA provider verification systems for compliance

Reviewer: I'd delete this line. I'm not sure what it means and I think "UMA provider" doesn't mean much in this context.

> - **Extended Review**: Customers may require manual review and approval

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Extended Review**: Customers may require manual review and approval in some cases
```

<Tip>

> Unregulated platforms should primarily use the hosted KYC flow to ensure compliance with regulatory requirements.

Reviewer: Nit: I think we already say this above pretty clearly.

</Tip>

### Determining Your Platform Status

You can check your platform's regulatory status via the platform configuration:

```http
GET /config
```

<ResponseField name="isRegulatedFinancialInstitution" type="boolean">
Indicates whether your platform is a regulated financial institution. This affects available KYC flows and requirements.
</ResponseField>

<AccordionGroup>
<Accordion title="Regulated Platform Example">
```json
{
  "id": "PlatformConfig:019542f5-b3e7-1d02-0000-000000000003",
  "isRegulatedFinancialInstitution": true,
  "supportedCurrencies": [
    {
      "currencyCode": "USD",
      "umaProviderRequiredCustomerFields": [
        "FULL_NAME",
        "BIRTH_DATE"
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```
</Accordion>

<Accordion title="Unregulated Platform Example">
```json
{
  "id": "PlatformConfig:019542f5-b3e7-1d02-0000-000000000003", 
  "isRegulatedFinancialInstitution": false,
  "supportedCurrencies": [
    {
      "currencyCode": "USD",
      "umaProviderRequiredCustomerFields": [
        "FULL_NAME",
        "BIRTH_DATE",
        "NATIONALITY",
        "ADDRESS",
        "IDENTITY_DOCUMENT"
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```
</Accordion>

> </AccordionGroup>

Reviewer: ### 
```suggestion
</AccordionGroup>

If your platform is configured incorrectly, please reach out to Lightspark support, and we'll get that resolved.
```

## Choosing Your Onboarding Flow

Use this decision tree to determine the best onboarding approach for your platform:

<AccordionGroup>
<Accordion title="Are you a regulated financial institution?">
**Yes (isRegulatedFinancialInstitution: true)**

- ✅ **Use Direct API Onboarding** for most customers
- ✅ Handle KYC/KYB verification internally through your compliance systems
- ✅ Provide only essential fields required by UMA providers
- ✅ Faster customer onboarding process

**No (isRegulatedFinancialInstitution: false)**

- ✅ **Use Hosted KYC Link Flow** for new customers
- ✅ Let UMA providers handle identity verification
- ✅ Provide comprehensive customer documentation if using direct API
</Accordion>

<Accordion title="Additional Considerations">
**When to use Hosted KYC even as a regulated platform:**
- **Business customers** (always required)
- Enhanced verification requirements for specific use cases
- International customers requiring local compliance
- High-value transactions requiring additional verification

> - Regulatory requirements for specific customer types

Reviewer: I feel like none of this is actually true or required? Are you sure about this or is cursor being over-confident here?

</Accordion>
</AccordionGroup>

## Hosted KYC Link Flow

The hosted KYC flow provides a secure, hosted interface where customers can complete their identity verification and onboarding process.

<Note>

> **Primary use case**: Unregulated platforms should use this flow for complete identity verification. Regulated platforms may use this flow for enhanced verification or when required by specific use cases. **Business customers must always use this flow regardless of platform regulatory status.**

Reviewer: I'd just remove this note. It's getting repetitive here and I think this is partially inaccurate.

</Note>

### Generate KYC Link

<RequestExample>
```http GET /customers/kyc-link

> GET /customers/kyc-link?redirect_uri=https://yourapp.com/onboarding-complete

Reviewer: Note for future reference (not needed now): I suspect that users may want to pre-fill some KYC data if possible. For example, if they already have the user's name, perhaps we can pre-fill that, etc.

Optional URI parameter that specifies where the customer will be automatically redirected after successfully completing the hosted KYC verification process. If not provided, customers will be redirected to a default completion page.
</ParamField>

<ResponseField name="kycUrl" type="string" required>
A hosted KYC link for your customer to complete identity verification and onboarding. This URL contains the KYC session and any redirect configuration.
</ResponseField>

<Note>
The `redirect_uri` parameter is embedded in the KYC URL and will be used to redirect the customer back to your application after they complete the verification process. This provides a seamless user experience by returning them to your platform.
</Note>

### Complete KYC Process

<Steps>
<Step title="Generate KYC Link">
  Call the `/customers/kyc-link` endpoint with your `redirect_uri` parameter to generate a hosted KYC URL for your customer.
  
  <Note>
  The `redirect_uri` parameter is embedded in the generated KYC URL and will be used to automatically redirect the customer back to your application after they complete verification.
  </Note>
</Step>

<Step title="Redirect Customer">

>   Redirect your customer to the returned `kycUrl` where they can complete their identity verification in the hosted interface.

Reviewer: I'm fine with keeping this as-is for now since we don't know which vendor we're using yet, but I do think there's a good chance we use an iframe based flow like with plaid link.

  
  <Warning>
  The KYC link is single-use and expires after a limited time period for security.
  </Warning>
</Step>

<Step title="Customer Completes Verification">
  The customer completes the identity verification process in the hosted KYC interface, providing required documents and information.
  
  <Info>
  The hosted interface handles document collection, verification checks, and compliance requirements automatically.
  </Info>
  
  <Note>
  After verification processing, you'll receive a KYC status webhook notification indicating the final verification result.
  </Note>
</Step>

<Step title="Automatic Redirect">
  Upon successful KYC completion, the customer is automatically redirected to your specified `redirect_uri` URL.
  
  <Check>

>   The customer account will be automatically created by the system upon successful KYC completion. You can identify the new customer using your `platformCustomerId` or other identifiers.

Reviewer: The customer object is actually created immediately, right? Not just after successful kyc. Maybe we should return the new customer ID somewhere as a param to the redirect URI or something so that it's queryable? I don't think they can use the platformCustomerId unless they give us one when creating the KYC link, right?

  </Check>
</Step>

<Step title="Handle Completion">
  On your redirect page, handle the completed KYC flow and integrate the new customer into your application.
  
  <Tip>
  You may want to query the customer details or internal accounts to confirm successful onboarding.
  </Tip>
</Step>
</Steps>

### Handling KYC Status Webhooks

After a customer completes the hosted KYC verification process, you'll receive webhook notifications about their KYC status. These notifications are sent to your configured webhook endpoint.

<RequestExample>
```http POST Your Webhook Endpoint
POST https://yourapp.com/webhooks/kyc-status
Content-Type: application/json
X-Webhook-Signature: sha256=abc123...

{
  "webhookId": "Webhook:019542f5-b3e7-1d02-0000-000000000020",
  "type": "KYC_STATUS",
  "timestamp": "2023-07-21T17:32:28Z",

>   "customerId": "Customer:019542f5-b3e7-1d02-0000-000000000001",

Reviewer: We might also want to include the platformCustomerId here if we're given one.

  "kycStatus": "APPROVED"
}
```
</RequestExample>

<ResponseField name="customerId" type="string" required>
System-generated unique identifier of the customer whose KYC status has changed.
</ResponseField>

<ResponseField name="kycStatus" type="string" required>
Final KYC verification status. Webhooks are only sent for final states:
- `APPROVED`: Customer verification completed successfully
- `REJECTED`: Customer verification was rejected
- `EXPIRED`: KYC verification has expired and needs renewal
- `CANCELED`: Verification process was canceled
- `MANUALLY_APPROVED`: Customer was manually approved by platform
- `MANUALLY_REJECTED`: Customer was manually rejected by platform

<Note>

> Intermediate states like `PENDING_REVIEW` do not trigger webhook notifications. Only final resolution states will send webhook notifications.

Reviewer: Why not?

</Note>
</ResponseField>

<Tip>
**Webhook Implementation**: Ensure your webhook endpoint can handle KYC status updates and update your internal customer records accordingly. You may want to trigger different actions based on the status (e.g., activate accounts for `APPROVED` customers, notify support for `REJECTED` customers).
</Tip>

<Warning>

> **Final States Only**: Webhook notifications are only sent for final KYC states. Intermediate status changes during verification processing will not trigger webhook notifications.

Reviewer: nit: This is a duplicate of above imo

      await logKycCancelation(customerId);
      break;
      
    default:
      // Log unexpected statuses
      console.log(`Unexpected KYC status ${kycStatus} for customer ${customerId}`);
  }
  
  res.status(200).send('OK');
});
```
</Accordion>

<Accordion title="Webhook Security">
Always verify webhook signatures to ensure the request comes from the UMAaaS platform:

```javascript
const crypto = require('crypto');

function verifyWebhookSignature(payload, signature, secret) {
  const expectedSignature = crypto
    .createHmac('sha256', secret)
    .update(payload)
    .digest('hex');
  
  return crypto.timingSafeEqual(
    Buffer.from(signature.replace('sha256=', '')),
    Buffer.from(expectedSignature)
  );
}
```
</Accordion>
</AccordionGroup>

## Direct API Onboarding

For platforms that handle KYC/KYB verification internally, you can create customers directly via the API.

<Note>
**Primary use case**: Regulated platforms should use this flow since they handle compliance verification internally. Unregulated platforms can use this flow only if they provide comprehensive customer documentation and handle verification through other means.
</Note>

<Warning>

> **Business Customers**: Business customers must always use the hosted KYC link flow for onboarding, regardless of your platform's regulatory status. Direct API onboarding is only available for individual customers.

Reviewer: Again, not sure this is true.

    "country": "US"
  },
  "businessInfo": {
    "legalName": "Acme Corporation, Inc.",
    "registrationNumber": "BRN-123456789",
    "taxId": "EIN-987654321"
  },
  "bankAccountInfo": {
    "accountType": "US_ACCOUNT",
    "accountNumber": "987654321",
    "routingNumber": "123456789",
    "accountCategory": "CHECKING",
    "bankName": "Bank of America"
  }
}
```
</RequestExample>

<ResponseExample>
```json Success
{
  "id": "Customer:019542f5-b3e7-1d02-0000-000000000002",
  "umaAddress": "$acme.corp@mycompany.com",
  "platformCustomerId": "business_67890",
  "customerType": "BUSINESS",
  "address": {
    "line1": "456 Oak Avenue",
    "line2": "Floor 12",
    "city": "New York",
    "state": "NY",
    "postalCode": "10001",
    "country": "US"
  },
  "businessInfo": {
    "legalName": "Acme Corporation, Inc.",
    "registrationNumber": "BRN-123456789",
    "taxId": "EIN-987654321"
  },
  "kycStatus": "APPROVED",
  "createdAt": "2023-07-21T17:32:28Z",
  "updatedAt": "2023-07-21T17:32:28Z",
  "isDeleted": false
}
```
</ResponseExample>

## Schema References

The customer creation endpoints reference the following OpenAPI schema components:

<AccordionGroup>

> <Accordion title="Customer Schema">

Reviewer: Is there really much value in this section? It kind of feels like a bit of a duplicate of the API reference for these objects. Maybe it's helpful though...

The base customer schema includes:

<ResponseField name="id" type="string" required>
System-generated unique identifier for the customer.
</ResponseField>

<ResponseField name="umaAddress" type="string" required>

> Full UMA address following the format `$username@domain`.

Reviewer: This is flagged as required, but we should probably note that this is optional and is generated automatically if not provided. Might also be good to move it down.
